The control statement that allows us to make a decision from the
number of choices is called a *switch*, or more correctly a *switch-case-default*, 
since these three keywords go together to make up the control statement.

Syntax:- 

switch ( integer expression )
    {
    case constant 1 :
    do this ;
    case constant 2 :
    do this ;
    case constant 3 :
    do this ;
    default :
    do this ;
    } 


The integer expression following the keyword switch is any C
expression that will yield an integer value. It could be an integer
constant like 1, 2 or 3, or an expression that evaluates to an integer. 
The keyword case is followed by an integer or a character constant. Each constant in each case must be different from all the others. The “do this” lines in the above form of switch represent
any valid C statement.


Imp. example and result:-

main( )
{
 int i = 2 ;
 switch ( i )
 {
 case 1 :
    printf ( "I am in case 1 \n" ) ;
 case 2 :
    printf ( "I am in case 2 \n" ) ;
 case 3 :
    printf ( "I am in case 3 \n" ) ;
 default :
    printf ( "I am in default \n" ) ;
 }
}

Output of the above program:-

I am in case 2 
I am in case 3
I am in default

The output is definitely not what we expected! We didn’t expect
the second and third line in the above output. The program prints
case 2 and 3 and the default case. Well, yes. We said the switch
executes the case where a match is found and all the subsequent
cases and the default as well.
If you want that only case 2 should get executed, it is upto you to
get out of the switch then and there by using a *break* statement.
The following example shows how this is done. Note that there is
no need for a break statement after the default, since the control
comes out of the switch anyway. 

main( )
{
 int i = 2 ;
 switch ( i )
 {
 case 1 :
    printf ( "I am in case 1 \n" ) ;
    break ;
 case 2 :
    printf ( "I am in case 2 \n" ) ;
    break ;
 case 3 :
    printf ( "I am in case 3 \n" ) ;
    break ;
 default :
    printf ( "I am in default \n" ) ;
 }
} 

The output of the above program would be:-

I am in case 2 